# Project Proposal
## The Question: 
#### I will examen the land uses and attractions along the most dangerous areas of California's right-of-way in Los Angeles County for cyclists and pedestrians, and evaluate whether certain land uses create a higher likelihood of crashes.
## Why it Matters:
#### By overlaying crash data of cyclists and pedestrians over a map of Los Angeles County, I am able to determine more dangerous areas along the State of California's right-of-way. This overlay informs Caltrans Planners of areas that need to be made more safe, but gives little context of why these areas are so dangerous and how to better plan such areas for future Capital Projects. By identifying land uses that can potentially increase dangerous situations for cyclists and pedestrians in advance of expending resources, lives and money can be saved by updating the most dangerous roadways first, and building newer roadways to be safer. 
## Spatial Scope
#### The standard for pedestrians' walking range in California is a half mile. Understanding that Caltrans' Complete Streets Team, who is responsible for making streets safer, only has jurisdiction on State right-of-says, this study will only look at crashes along the state right-ofway, and the land uses and attractions within a half mile distance from them. We will focus on high injury areas in only Los Angeles County as a way to start small while determining if this method is effective. We will use a five year span of data from January 1st, 2016 through December 31st, 2020. This will give me the option to consider the data as both aggregate as well as separated between the before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is important to note that the 2019-2020 data is currently preliminary. 
## The Data 
#### This study will use data from The Transportation Injury Mapping System (TIMS) to locate cyclist and pedestrian crashes along California's right-of-way in Los Angeles County. Their website and data can be found at: https://tims.berkeley.edu. To better understand Los Angeles County's land uses and attractions surrounding the State's right-of-ways, I will use Los Angeles County's GISHub database at https://egis-lacounty.hub.arcgis.com to pull a "L.A. County Parcel Map Service" which includes descriptions of the land use for each parcel.
## The Analysis
#### With these data, I will pull the crash data from the highest density of crash areas along the State right-of-way, and create a tally of the types of land uses within a half mile of those areas. I will then check to see if there are common land uses between these high injury areas. Once I narrow down the land uses to those that are most common to the danger areas, I will examen aspects of the crashes to see if there is a connection between the land uses and crashes. The likely visuals from these data may include a map showcasing the most dangerous areas within California State's right-of-way for pedestrians and cyclists, a chart or map of the most common land uses within a half mile of high injury areas, and a breakdown of how the most common land uses may endanger cyclists and pedestrians including images of the areas. 
## Expected Insights
#### Through this analysis, I hope to find a pattern of land uses that coorelate with increased danger for cyclists and pedestrians. If high injury areas differ in their land uses from each other, I hope to better understand whether land uses still play a role in increased danger for cyclists and pedestrians, and if so, which land uses. Insights into whether land uses play a role into injuries will help Caltrans identify areas along the State right-of-way that are potentially dangerous without the need for people to be hurt first. Furthermore, by knowing that certain land uses create the potential for higher injury of cyclists and pedestrians, extra care can be given to new developments that intend to include such land uses. 
