# Project Proposal
## The Question: 
#### I will examen the land uses and attractions along the most dangerous areas of California's right-of-way in Los Angeles County for cyclists and pedestrians, and evaluate whether certain land uses create a higher likelihood of crashes.
## Why it Matters:
#### By overlaying crash data of cyclists and pedestrians over a map of Los Angeles County, I am able to determine more dangerous areas along the State of California's right-of-way. This overlay informs Caltrans Planners of areas that need to be made more safe, but gives little context of why these areas are so dangerous and how to better plan such areas for future Capital Projects. By identifying land uses that can potentially increase dangerous situations for cyclists and pedestrians in advance of expending resources, lives and money can be saved by updating the most dangerous roadways first, and building newer roadways to be safer. 
## Spatial Scope
#### The standard for pedestrians' walking range in California is a half mile. Understanding that Caltrans' Complete Streets Team, who is responsible for making streets safer, only has jurisdiction on State right-of-says, this study will only look at crashes along the state right-ofway, and the land uses and attractions within a half mile distance from them. We will focus on high injury areas in only Los Angeles County as a way to start small while determining if this method is effective. We will use a five year span of data from January 1st, 2016 through December 31st, 2020. This will give me the option to consider the data as both aggregate as well as separated between the before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is important to note that the 2019-2020 data is currently preliminary. 
## Data Sources
#### This study will use data from The Transportation Injury Mapping System (TIMS) to locate cyclist and pedestrian crashes along California's right-of-way in Los Angeles County. Their website and data can be found at: https://tims.berkeley.edu. We will 
